SAGNAS
======

Safety Aware GPS Navigation and Assistance System

Motivation
==========

Our motivation for this application was to give users in the Kansas City area the ability to be more knowledgable about their surroundings by providing them with crime information based on their current location, as well as the ability to share their geolocation with other users of the application via shared rooms.

Objectives
==========

Our objectives are to provide accurate, easy to use information about local crime events for anybody to use. In doing so, we hope to educate people who want to take every measure to be as safe as possible. Additionally, we want to let people feel safer by giving them the opportunity to share their location with people they trust at any time, regardless of wi-fi connection (GPS only is necessary).


===================
Proposed Solutions:
===================


Approaches and Features
=======================

•	Provides a simple interface that can adapt to any display size (laptops, PCs, mobiles, etc.)

•	Provides the user an easy way to register as a victim, a cop, or an admin. Each type will have access to a different functionality.

•	All log in data are stored in MySQL database.

•	Sign-in: lets users access the application features, keeping any relevant data stored and associated with their corresponding registration information.

•	Any user has the ability to initiate a Group Navigation service in which other users can join. When the service starts, a map will be displayed showing the current location of each user joined the group. Locations get updated continuously.

•	Other users can join a specific group by knowing its Navigation Group ID.

•	The group navigation session ends automatically when the last user leaves the group.


About friendly GPS navigation service:
======================================

•	Display a big map with some options and features to choose.

•	Allow users to get their current location.

•	Allow users to get live directions from point to point.

•	Allow users to locate the nearest police stations within a desired radius.


About Statistic service
=======================

•	Ask the user to enter the desired zip code in order to show crime data.

•	Display crime data in a chart that contains the crime types and their numbers.


Implementation
==============

•	HBase

•	JAQL

•	Hadoop

•	Apache Tomcat 7

•	JDK 7

•	Restful JAX-RS

•	MySQL

•	Google Maps API

•	Bootstrap

•	JQuary

•	Json

•	HTML 5

•	CSS 3


HBase Schema
============

Our HBase schema has the following format: 
```
{ 
	key:string, 
	cf1: {
				address:string,
				crime:string,
				longitude:string,
				latitude:string				
			}, 
	cf2: {
				date:string,
				id:string,
				time:string,
				zipcode:string
			} 
}
```
Our keys are generated by joining the zipcode and crime id together. Column family cf1 stores geolocation, address and crime type, while cf2 stores date and time committed, crime id, and zipcode.


===========
Evaluation:
===========


Significance
============

The combination of our various web services, along with the different  Hadoop-based tools (Map Reduce, Hbase, JAQL) makes for a powerful cloud-based application. While currently we are using a relatively small data set and covering only one location, the application can very easily be expanded to cover many more cities and much larger data sets. Also, because of the way we implemented our services, we are not reliant on Google Maps API for our visual display of data, and can move to any other map-based API available.  


Uniqueness
==========

Open crime data for the Kansas City area has only been available for a short time, so our implementation is unique for the metro area. 

Limitations
===========

The process to get our data set and convert it into a usable format for Hbase involves multiple steps, and requires some manual work. As we grow the application and use more dynamic, larger data sets, our current conversion process will need to be reevaluated.
